There was, next to the well, the ruin of an old stone wall. When I came back from my work, the next evening, I saw from a distance my little price sitting on top of it, his feet hanging down. And I heard him say:
“Don’t you remember then?” he said.
“This isn’t the exact spot.”
Another voice must have answered him, because he replied:
“Yes, yes! It’s the right day, but this isn’t the right place.”
I continued my walk toward the wall. I still didn’t see or hear anyone. Yet the little prince replied again:
”...That’s right. You’ll see where my tracks begin in the sand. You just have to wait there for me. I’ll be there tonight...”
I was twenty meters from the wall, and I still saw nothing.
The little prince spoke again, after a pause:
“Do you have good poison? Are you sure you won’t make me suffer too long?”
I froze, my heart skipped a beat; but I still didn’t understand.
“Now go away,” he said, “I want to come down from here.”
I then lowered my eyes to the foot of the wall, and I leapt up! Right there, facing the little prince was one of those yellow snakes that can kill you in thirty seconds flat. Even as I dug around in my pocket to take out my revolver, I made a running step back. But, at the noise I made, the snake let himself flow easily across the sand, like the dying spray of a fountain, and in no apparent hurry, slipped between the stones with a light metallic sound.
I reached the wall just in time to catch my little fellow in my arms, who was white as snow.
“What’s going on here? Why are you talking with snakes?”
I’d loosened the golden muffler that he always wore. I’d moistened his temples and had him drink. And now I didn’t dare ask him anything more. He looked at me gravely and put his arms around my neck. I felt his heart beat like the heart of a dying bird, when shot with a rifle. He said to me:
“I’m glad that you’ve found what was wrong with your engine. Now you’ll be able to go back home—”
“How did you know!”
I was just coming to tell him that, against all odds, my work had been successful.
He made no answer to my question, but he added:
“I’m also going back home today...”
Then he said sadly:
“It’s a lot further... it’s much more difficult...”
I felt very clearly that something extraordinary was happening. I held him tightly in my arms like a small child; and yet it seemed to me that he was plummeting down into an abyss, and that I could do nothing to restrain him...
He had a serious look, as if lost far away.
“I have your sheep. And I have the box for the sheep. And I have the muzzle...”
And he smiled sadly.
I waited a long while. I could feel that he was reviving little by little.
“My little fellow,” I said to him, “you’re afraid...”
He was afraid, of course. But he laughed softly:
“I’ll be much more afraid this evening...”
Again I felt myself frozen by the sense of something irreparable. And I knew that I couldn’t bear the idea of never hearing that laughter again. For me, it was like a spring of fresh water in the desert.
“Little fellow,” I said, “I want to hear you laugh again.”
But he said to me:
“Tonight, it’ll be a year. My star will be right above the spot where I came down to Earth, a year ago...”
“Little fellow, is this all a bad dream-this business with the snake, and the meeting-place, and the star...?”
But he didn’t answer my question.
He said to me:
“That which is important can’t be seen...”
“I know...”
“It’s like with the flower. If you love a flower that’s on a star, it’s sweet to look at the sky at night. All the stars are covered with flowers...”
“I know...”
“It’s like with the water. The water you gave me to drink was like music, because of the pulley, and the rope... you remember... it was good.”
“I know.”
“At night you’ll look at the stars. Where I live everything is too small for me to point out to you where my star is. It’s better like that. My star will be for you just one of the stars. So you’ll love to look at all of the stars... they’ll all be your friends. And, besides, I’m going to make you a present...”
He laughed again.
“Ah, little fellow, dear little fellow!
I love to hear that laugh!”
“That’s my present. Just that. It’ll be like with the water...”
“What are you trying to say?”
“Everyone has the same stars, but they are not the same to everyone. For some, who are travelers, the stars are guides. For others they are nothing but little lights. For others, who are scholars, they are problems. For my businessman they were wealth. But none of these stars say anything back. You will have the stars as no one else has them...”
“What are you trying to say?”
“When you look at the sky at night, because I’ll be living on one of them, because I’ll be laughing on one of them, for you it’ll be like all the stars are laughing. You-only you-will have stars that can laugh!”
And he laughed again.
“And when your sorrow is comforted (time heals all wounds) you’ll be glad to have known me. You’ll always be my friend. You’ll want to laugh with me. And sometimes, you’ll open your window, just like that, for fun... And your friends will be very surprised to see you laughing whilst watching the sky. So you’ll tell them, “Yes, the stars always make me laugh!” And they’ll think you’re crazy. I will have played a dirty trick on you...
And he laughed again.
“It‘ll be as if I’d given you, instead of stars, lots and lots of little bells that can laugh...”
And he laughed some more. Then he suddenly became serious again:
“Tonight... you know... don’t come.”
“I won’t leave you.”
“It’ll look as if I’m suffering... It’ll look a bit as if I’m dying. It’s like that. Don’t come to see that. It’s not worth it...”
“I won’t leave you.”
But he was worried.
“I’m telling you this— it’s also because of the snake. He mustn’t bite you... Snakes are mean. They can bite you just for fun...”
“I won’t leave you.”
But something reassured him:
“It’s true that they have no poison left for a second bite.”
That night I didn’t see him set out. He got away without making a sound. When I managed to catch him up, he was walking along determinedly, at a brisk pace. He said to me only:
“Oh! You came...”
And he took me by the hand. But he was still worrying.
“You’ve made a mistake. You’ll suffer. It’ll look as if I’m dead, and that won’t be true... ”
I said nothing.
“You understand. It’s too far. I can’t carry this body with me. It’s too heavy.”
I said nothing.
“But it’ll be like an old abandoned shell. There’s nothing sad about old shells...”
I said nothing.
He got a bit discouraged. But he made one more effort:
“You know, it’ll be nice. I’ll also look at the stars. All the stars will be wells with a rusty pulley. All the stars will pour out fresh water for me to drink...”
I said nothing.
“It’ll be so much fun! You’ll have five hundred million little bells, and I’ll have five hundred million springs of fresh water...”
And then he too was silent, because he was crying.
“Here’s the place. Let me go on by myself.”
And he sat down because he was afraid.
He said:
“You know-my flower... I’m responsible for her. And she’s so weak! And she’s so naive! She has four thorns, of no use at all, to protect herself against the entire world...”
I sat down too because I was no longer able to stand. He said:
“There... that’s everything...”
He hesitated a bit, and then stood back up. He took one step. I couldn’t move.
There was nothing but a yellow flash close to his ankle. He remained motionless for an instant. He didn’t cry out. He fell as gently as a tree falls. There was not even any sound, because of the sand.

And now of course, it’s already been six years... I have never yet told this story. The companions who met me were very happy to see me alive again. I was sad, but I told them: “It’s because I’m tired...”
Now my sorrow is comforted a little. I mean... not entirely. But I do know that he got back to his planet, because at daybreak I didn’t find his body. It wasn’t a very heavy body... And I love to listen to the stars at night. It’s just like five hundred million little bells...
But there is one extraordinary thing. When I drew the muzzle for the little prince, I forgot to add the leather strap to it. He would never have been able to fasten it to the sheep. So I wonder: what happened on his planet? It may well be the sheep ate the flower...
Sometimes I tell myself: “Surely not! The little prince shuts his flower under her glass dome every night, and he watches over his sheep very carefully...” Then I’m happy. And all the stars laugh sweetly.
Other times I tell myself: “Everyone is absent-minded at some point, and that’s all it takes! One evening he would’ve forgotten the glass dome, or maybe the sheep got out quietly during the night...” And then the little bells turn to tears...
Herein lies a great mystery. For you, who also love the little prince, just like for me, nothing in the universe is the same if somewhere out there, a sheep that we have never seen has — has it? - eaten a rose...
Look at the sky. Ask yourselves: Has the sheep-yes or no-eaten the flower? And you will see how everything changes...
And no grownup will ever understand that this is a matter of such importance!
This, to me, is the most beautiful and most sad landscape in the world. It’s the same landscape as the one on the previous page, but I have drawn it again to show it to you properly. It’s here that the little prince appeared on Earth, and then disappeared.
Look at this landscape carefully, so as to be sure to recognize it if one day you travel in Africa, in the desert. And if you happen to pass by there, I beg you, don’t hurry on, wait a while exactly under the star. If a child then comes to you, if he laughs, if he has golden hair, if he doesn’t respond when questioned, you’ll easily guess who it is. So think of me! Save me from this sorrow: write to me quickly, to tell me he’s back...
