But it happened that the little prince, having walked for a long time through the sands, rocks, and snow, at last came across a road. And all roads lead to the dwellings of men.
“Good morning,” he said.
It was a garden covered in roses.
“Good morning,” said the roses.
“Good morning! Good morning! Good morning!”
The little prince gazed at them. They all looked just like his flower.
“Who are you?” he asked them, stunned.
“We're roses,” the roses said.
“We're roses! We're roses! We're roses!”
“Oh!” said the little prince...
And he suddenly felt very unhappy. His flower had told him that she was the only one of her kind in the universe. And here were five thousand of them, all alike, in one single garden!
“She’d be very upset,” he said to himself, “if she saw this... she’d cough and cough and pretend to die to avoid being laughed at. And I’d have to pretend to nurse her back to life, to humble myself also, because if I didn’t, she really would allow herself to die... ”
Then he said to himself: “I thought I was rich, with a flower that was one of a kind, and all I have is a common rose. That, and my three volcanoes that come up to my knees, of one which is perhaps forever extinct; that doesn't make me a very great prince. And lying in the grass, he started to cry.

It was then that the fox appeared:
“Good morning,” said the fox.
“Good morning,” responded the little prince politely, who then turned around, but saw nothing.
“I’m right here,” the voice said, “under the apple tree...”
“Who are you?” asked the little prince. “You’re very pretty.”
“I’m a fox,” the fox said.
“Come and play with me,” proposed the little prince. “I’m so unhappy.”
“I can’t play with you,” said the fox.
“I’m not tamed.”
“Oh! I’m sorry,” said the little prince.
But, after some thought, he added:
“What does that mean —'tame'?”
“You aren’t from here,” said the fox.
“What is it that you’re looking for?”
“I’m looking for men,” said the little prince. “What does 'tame' mean?”
“Men,” said the fox, “they have guns, and they hunt. It’s very bothersome. They also raise chickens. It’s their sole interest. Are you looking for chickens?”
“No,” said the little prince. “I’m looking for friends. What does 'tame' mean?”
“It’s something that’s too often forgotten,” said the fox. “It means ‘to establish bonds.’”
‘“To establish bonds?”’
“That’s right,” said the fox. “To me, you’re still only a little boy, just like a hundred thousand other little boys. And I don’t need you. And you don’t need me either. To you, I’m only a fox, just like a hundred thousand other foxes. But if you tame me, we’ll need each other. To me, you’ll be unique in the entire world. To you, I’ll be unique in the entire world...”
“I’m beginning to understand,” said the little prince. “There’s a flower... I think she’s tamed me...”
“It’s possible,” said the fox. “On Earth you see all kinds of things.”
“Oh, but she’s not on Earth!” said the little prince.
The fox seemed very intrigued:
“On another planet?”
“Yes.”
“Are there hunters on that planet?”
“No.”
“That's interesting! And chickens?”
“No.”
“Nothing’s perfect,” sighed the fox.
But the fox came back to his idea.
“My life is very monotonous. I hunt chickens; men hunt me. All the chickens look alike, and all the men look alike. So I get a bit bored. But if you tame me, it would bring some sunlight into my life. I’d come to know a sound of footsteps unlike any other. Other footsteps send me hurrying back underground. Yours would call me out of my burrow like music. And then look: you see the wheat fields down there? I don’t eat bread. Wheat is of no use to me. The wheat fields mean nothing to me. And that’s sad. But your hair is the colour of gold. So it’ll be wonderful when you’ve tamed me! The wheat, which is golden, will remind me of you. And I’ll love the sound of the wind blowing through the wheat...”
The fox went silent and gazed at the little prince for a long time.
“Please... tame me!” he said.
“I really want to,” the little prince replied, “but I don’t have much time. I have friends to discover, and many things to understand.”
“One only understands the things that one tames,” said the fox. “Men no longer have the time to get to know anything. They buy things ready made in the shops. But as there aren’t any shops that sell friends, men no longer have any friends.
If you want a friend, tame me.
“What should I do?” asked the little prince.
“You have to be very patient,” replied the fox. “First you’ll sit down a little way away from me, like this, in the grass. I’ll watch you out of the corner of my eye and you won’t say anything. Words are a source of misunderstandings. But every day you’ll be able to sit a little closer...”
The next day the little prince came back.
“It would’ve been better to come back at the same time of day,” said the fox. “If you come, for example, at four o'clock in the afternoon, from three o'clock I’d start to feel happy. As the time got nearer, I’d feel happier and happier. Already by four o'clock, I’d be jumping about and getting restless; I’d come to learn the price of happiness! But if you come at just any time, I‘d never know at what time my heart should be ready to greet you... we must observe the rites.”
“What’s a rite?” asked the little prince.
“They are also something too often forgotten,” said the fox. “They are what make one day different from other days, one hour different from other hours. There’s a rite, for example, among my hunters. On Thursdays they dance with the girls of the village. So Thursday is a wonderful day! I can go for a walk as far as the vineyards. If the hunters danced on just any day, all the days would be alike, and I’d never have any rest.”
So the little prince tamed the fox. And when the time to leave drew near...
“Oh,” said the fox, “I’ll cry.”
“It’s your fault,” said the little prince. “I never wished you any harm; but you wanted me to tame you...”
“I know,” said the fox.
“But you’re going to cry!” said the little prince.
“I know,” said the fox.
“So all this has done you no good at all!”
“It has done me good,” said the fox, “because of the colour of the wheat.”
And then he added:
“Go and see the roses again. You’ll understand that yours is unique in the entire world. Then come back to say goodbye to me, and I’ll make you a present of a secret.”
The little prince went away to see the roses again:
“You aren’t like my rose at all, you are nothing yet,” he told them. No one has tamed you, and you haven’t tamed anyone. You’re like my fox used to be. He was only a fox, just like a hundred thousand others. But I’ve made him my friend, and now he’s unique in the entire world.”
And the roses were very embarrassed.
“You are beautiful, but you are empty,” he went on. “One could not die for you. Of course, an ordinary passer-by would think that my rose looked just like you. But she alone is more important than all of you: because it’s her that I watered; because it’s her that I put under the glass dome; because it’s her that I sheltered behind the screen; because it’s for her that I killed the caterpillars (except two or three, to become butterflies); because it’s her that I listened to grumble, or boast, or even sometimes when she said nothing. Because she’s my rose.
And he went back to the fox:
“Goodbye,” he said.
“Goodbye,” said the fox. “Here's my secret. It’s very simple: one only sees clearly with the heart. What is essential is invisible to the eye.”
“What is essential is invisible to the eye,” repeated the little prince, so as to remember.
“It is the time you have wasted on your rose that makes your rose so important.”
“It is the time that I have wasted on my rose...” said the little prince, so as to remember.
“The men have forgotten this truth,” said the fox. “But you must not forget it. You become forever responsible for that which you have tamed. You are responsible for your rose...”
“I am responsible for my rose,” repeated the little prince, so as to remember.

“Good morning,” said the little prince.
“Good morning,” said the railway switchman.
“What do you do here?” the little prince asked.
“I sort travelers, in packs of a thousand,” said the switchman. “I dispatch the trains that carry them: sometimes to the right, sometimes to the left.”
And a brilliantly lit express train, rumbling like thunder, shook the switchman's cabin.
“They really are in a hurry,” said the little prince. “What is it that they’re looking for?”
“Not even the locomotive engineer knows that,” said the switchman.
A second brilliantly lit express thundered by in the opposite direction.
“Are they back already?” asked the little prince.
“These aren’t the same ones,” said the switchman. “It’s an exchange.”
“Weren’t they happy where they were?”
“No one is ever happy where they are,” said the switchman.
A third brilliantly lit express thundered by.
“Are they chasing after the first travelers?” asked the little prince.
“They aren’t chasing after anything at all,” said the switchman. “They’re asleep in there, or if not, they’re yawning. Only the children are squashing their noses up against the windows.”
“Only the children know what they’re after,” said the little prince. “They waste their time with a rag doll and it becomes very important to them; and if someone takes it away from them, they cry...”
“They’re lucky,” said the switchman.
