Once, when I was six years old, I saw a magnificent picture in a book about the primeval forest called ‘Real-life Stories.’ It showed a boa constrictor swallowing a wild animal. Here is a copy of the drawing.
It said in the book: “Boa constrictors swallow their prey whole, without chewing. Then they are not able to move, and they sleep for the six months it takes for digestion.”
So I thought a lot about the adventures of the jungle and, in turn, I managed, with a coloured pencil, to make my first drawing. My Drawing Number one. It looked like this:
I showed my masterpiece to the grownups and I asked them if my drawing frightened them.
They answered me: “Why would anyone be frightened by a hat?”
My drawing was not of a hat. It showed a boa constrictor digesting an elephant. I then drew the inside of the boa constrictor, so that the grownups could understand. They always need to have things explained. My Drawing Number two looked like this:
The grownups advised me to leave aside drawings of boa constrictors, open or closed, and to apply myself instead to geography, history, arithmetic and grammar. Thus I abandoned, at the age of six, a magnificent career as a painter. I was discouraged by the failure of my Drawing Number one and of my Drawing Number two. Grownups never understand anything by themselves, and it’s tiresome for children to always explain things for them again and again.
So I had to choose another profession, and I learned to fly airplanes. I flew a little in many places around the world. And geography, it's true, has served me well. I could recognize, at first glance, China from Arizona. It’s very useful if you get lost at night.
I have had, during my life, a lot of contact with many persons of consequence. I have lived a lot amongst the grownups. I have seen them from close up. It hasnt much improved my opinion of them.
Whenever I met one of them that seemed a bit more clear-sighted, I tried the experiment of showing them my Drawing Number 1, that I've always kept. I wanted to know if they were really a person of true understanding. But they always responded: “It's a hat.” So I would never speak to them of boa constrictors, nor of primeval forests, nor of the stars. I put myself at their level. I talked to them about bridge, golf, politics and neckties. And the grownup was glad to know such a sensible man.

So I lived alone, without anyone I could really talk to, until a breakdown in the Sahara desert, six years ago. Something had broken in my engine. And as I had with me neither a mechanic nor any passengers, I readied myself to try and carry out, all alone, the difficult repairs. For me it was a matter of life or death. I had hardly enough water to drink for a week.
The first night I went to sleep on the sand, a thousand miles from any human habitation. I was more isolated than a shipwrecked sailor on a raft in the middle of the ocean. So you can imagine my surprise when at daybreak, a funny little voice woke me up. It said:
“Please... draw me a sheep!”
“What?”
“Draw me a sheep!”
I jumped to my feet as if I’d been struck by lightning. I rubbed my eyes. I took a good look around me. And I saw a quite extraordinary little man, who was examining me seriously. Here is the best portrait that, later, I managed to do of him. But my drawing, of course, is much less charming than its model. It's not my fault. I was discouraged in my career as a painter by the grownups, at the age of six, and I hadn't learned to draw anything except boa constrictors, closed and open.
I stared at this sudden apparition wide eyed with astonishment. Remember that I was a thousand miles from any inhabited region. And yet this little fellow seemed neither lost, nor half-dead with fatigue, nor starved or dying of thirst or fear. He looked nothing like a child lost in the middle of the desert, a thousand miles from any inhabited region. When I finally managed to speak, I said:
“But—what are you doing here?”
And he repeated, very slowly, as if it was something very serious:
“Please... draw me a sheep...”
When a mystery is too overpowering, one dare not disobey. Absurd as it seemed to me a thousand miles from any human habitation and in danger of death, I took out of my pocket a sheet of paper and a pen. But then I remembered that I had mainly studied geography, history, arithmetic and grammar, and I told the little fellow (a little crossly) that I didn’t know how to draw. He replied:
“It doesn't matter. Draw me a sheep.”
As I’d never drawn a sheep, I redrew for him one of the only two drawings that I was capable of. The one of the closed boa constrictor. And I was astounded to hear the little fellow respond:
“No! No! I don’t want an elephant inside a boa constrictor. A boa constrictor is very dangerous, and an elephant is very cumbersome. Where I live everything is very small. I need a sheep. Draw me a sheep.”
So I drew.
He looked carefully, then said:
“No! This one’s already very sick. Make another one.”
I drew again:
My friend smiled gently and indulgently:
“You can see yourself... this isn’t a sheep, it's a ram. It has horns... “
So once again I redid my drawing:
But it was rejected, like the previous ones:
“This one’s too old. I want a sheep that will live a long time.”
So, getting impatient, as I was eager to start dismantling my engine, I hastily sketched this drawing:
And I snapped:
“This here is the box. The sheep you want is inside.”
But I was very surprised to see the face of my young judge light up:
“It's exactly the way I wanted! Do you think this sheep needs a lot of grass?”
“Why?”
“Because where I'm from everything is very small...”
“There will certainly be enough. I gave you a very small sheep.”
He leaned his head towards the drawing:
“Not that small... Look! He's fallen asleep...”
And that's how I met the little prince.

It took me a long time to find out where he came from. The little prince, who asked me many questions, never seemed to hear my own. It was the words spoken by chance that, little by little, revealed everything to me. So, when he saw my airplane for the first time (I won’t draw my airplane, it would be a drawing far too complicated for me), he asked me:
“What's that thing there?”
“It's not a thing. It flies. It's an airplane.
It’s my airplane.”
And I was proud to have him know that I could fly. Then he cried:
“What? You fell from the sky!”
“Yes,” I said modestly.
“Oh! That's funny !...”
And the little prince broke into a lovely peal of laughter, which irritated me very much. I prefer people to take my misfortunes seriously. Then he added:
“So, you also come from the sky!
What planet are you from?”
I caught a glimpse into the mystery of his presence, and I asked abruptly:
“So you come from another planet then?”
But he didn’t answer. He shook his head slowly whilst looking at my airplane:
“It's true that you can't have come from far away in that thing...”
And he drifted into a daydream which lasted a long while. Then, taking my sheep out of his pocket, he sank himself into the contemplation of his treasure.
You can imagine how my curiosity was aroused by this small disclosure about ‘the other planets.’ So I tried to find out more:
“Where are you from my little fellow? Where’s this ‘where I live’ of yours? Where do you take my sheep off to?”
After a reflective silence he answered:
“What's good about the box you’ve given me is that at night, he can use it as a house.”
“That’s right. And if you’re good, I'll give you a rope to tie him up with during the day. And a stake.”
The offer seemed to shock the little prince:
“Tie him up? What a funny idea!”
“But if you don't tie him up, he’ll wander off, and get lost.”
My friend broke into another peal of laughter:
“Where do you think he’d go!”
“Anywhere. Straight ahead...”
Then the little prince said gravely:
“That doesn’t matter; where I live, everything is so small!”
And perhaps with a hint of sadness, he added:
“Straight ahead you can't go far...”
