He found himself in the neighborhood of the asteroids 3 2 5, 3 2 6, 3 2 7, 3 2 8, 3 2 9, and 3 3 0. So he began by visiting them to learn more.
The first one was inhabited by a king. The king was sitting, dressed in purple and ermine, on a very simple yet majestic throne.
“Ah! Here comes a subject,” exclaimed the king, when he caught sight of the little prince.
And the little prince asked himself:
“How could he recognise me when he’s never seen me before?”
He didn’t know that for Kings, the world is very much simplified. To them, all men are subjects.
“Approach, so that I may see you better,” said the king, who was very proud to finally be king over somebody.
The little prince looked around him for a place to sit, but the planet was completely taken over by the magnificent ermine robe. So he remained standing, and, since he was tired, he yawned.
“It is contrary to etiquette to yawn in the presence of a king,” the monarch said to him. “I forbid you to do so.”
“I can't stop myself,” replied the little prince, thoroughly embarrassed. “I ve come on a long journey, and I haven’t slept...”
“Ah, then,” the king said. “I order you to yawn. I have not seen anyone yawning for years. Yawns, to me, are objects of curiosity. Come, now! Yawn again! It is an order.”
“That frightens me... I can’t any more...” said the little prince, blushing.
“Hum! Hum!” replied the king. “Then I—I order you sometimes to yawn and sometimes to—”
He sputtered a bit, and seemed vexed.
For the king fundamentally insisted that his authority be respected. He didn’t tolerate disobedience. He was an absolute monarch. But, because he was good at heart, he gave reasonable orders.
“If I ordered a general,” he would often say, “if I ordered a general to change himself into a seabird, and if the general did not obey me, it would not be the general’s fault. It would be my fault.”
“May I sit down?” the little prince enquired timidly.
“I order you to sit down,” replied the king, who majestically gathered in a fold of his ermine mantle.
But the little prince was astonished. The planet was tiny. Over what could this king really rule?
“Sire,” he said to him, “excuse my asking you a question—”
“I order you to ask me a question,” hastened to say the king.
“Sire... over what do you rule?”
“Over everything,” said the king, with a magnificent simplicity.
“Over everything?”
The king made a subtle gesture, pointing out his planet, the other planets and the stars.
“Over all that?” asked the little prince.
“Over all that,” the king answered.
For his rule was not only absolute: it was also universal.
“And the stars obey you?”
“Of course,” the king said. “They obey instantly. I do not tolerate insubordination.”
Such power filled the little prince with wonder. If he had held it himself, he would’ve been able to watch, not forty-four, but seventy-two, or even a hundred, or even two hundred sunsets on the same day, without ever having to move his chair! And as he felt a bit sad as he remembered his forsaken little planet, he plucked up his courage to ask the king a favour:
“I’d like to see a sunset... Do that for me... Order the sun to set...”
“If I ordered a general to fly from one flower to another like a butterfly, or to write a tragic drama, or to change himself into a sea bird, and if the general did not carry out the order received, which one of us would be in the wrong? ”
You,” said the little prince firmly.
“Exactly. One must ask of each person that which they can give,” the king went on. “Authority is based above all on reason. If you ordered your people to go and throw themselves into the sea, they would rise up in revolution. I have the right to demand obedience because my orders are reasonable.”
“Then my sunset?” the little prince reminded him, who never forgot a question once he had asked it.
“You shall have your sunset. I shall command it. But I shall wait, according to my science of government, until conditions are favourable.”
“When will that be?” inquired the little prince.
“Hum! hum!” replied the king, who consulted a bulky almanac. “Hum! Hum! That will be about—about—that will be this evening about twenty minutes to eight. And you will see how well I am obeyed!”
The little prince yawned. He was regretting his lost sunset. And then he was already getting a little bored.
“I've nothing more to do here,” he said to the king. “I’ll set off.”
“Do not go,” said the king, who was very proud of having a subject. “Do not go. I will make you a Minister!”
“Minister of what?”
“Minster of—of Justice!”
“But there’s nobody here to judge!”
“We do not know that,” the king said to him. “I have not yet made a complete tour of my kingdom. I am very old, I have no space for a carriage and it tires me to walk.”
“Oh, but I’ve already looked!” said the little prince, who leant over to give one more glance at the other side of the planet. There was no one there either...
“Then you shall judge yourself,” the king answered. “That is the most difficult thing of all. It is much more difficult to judge oneself than to judge someone else. If you succeed in judging yourself rightly, then you are truly wise.”
“Yes,” said the little prince, “but I can judge myself anywhere. I don’t have to live here.”
“Hum! hum!” said the king. “I am fairly certain that somewhere on my planet there is an old rat. I hear him at night. You can judge this old rat. From time to time you will condemn him to death. Thus his life will depend on your justice. But you will pardon him on each occasion to conserve him. There is only one of him.”
“I,” replied the little prince, “don’t like to condemn anyone to death, and now I think I’ll go on my way.”
“No,” said the king.
But the little prince, having readied himself to leave, had no wish to grieve the old monarch.
“If Your Majesty wishes to be promptly obeyed, he should be able to give me a reasonable order. He should be able, for example, to order me to leave within a minute. It seems to me that conditions are favourable...”
As the king made no answer, the little prince hesitated at first, then, with a sigh, took his leave.
“I make you my Ambassador,” the king hastily called out.
He had a magnificent air of authority.
“The grownups are very strange,” the little prince said to himself, as he continued on his journey.

The second planet was inhabited by a conceited man.
“Ah! Here comes a visit from an admirer!” exclaimed the conceited man from afar, the moment he spotted the little prince.
Because, to conceited men, all other men are admirers.
“Good morning,” said the little prince. “You have a funny hat.”
“It’s for saluting,” the conceited man replied. “It’s to raise in salute when people acclaim me. Unfortunately, nobody ever passes by this way.”
“Oh, Really?” said the little prince, who didn’t understand.
“Clap your hands, one against the other,” the conceited man advised.
The little prince clapped his hands, one against the other. The conceited man raised his hat in a modest salute.
“This is more fun than the visit to the king,” the little prince said to himself. And he began again to clap his hands, one against the other. The conceited man again raised his hat in a salute.
After five minutes of this exercise the little prince grew tired of the monotony of the game:
“And what should I do,” he asked, “to make the hat come down?”
But the conceited man didn’t hear him. Conceited people never hear anything but praise.
“Do you really admire me a lot?” he asked the little prince.
“What does that mean—'to admire'?”
‘“To admire’ means ‘to recognise that I’m the most handsome, the best-dressed, the richest, and the most intelligent man on the planet.’”
“But you’re the only man on the planet!”
“Do it for me. Admire me just the same.”
“I admire you,” said the little prince, shrugging his shoulders a little, “but how can that interest you so much?”
And the little prince went away.
“The grownups are certainly very odd,” he said to himself, as he continued his journey.

The next planet was inhabited by a heavy drinker. This was a very short visit, but it plunged the little prince into a deep sadness.
“What are you doing there?” he said to the drinker, who he found sitting in silence in front of a number of empty bottles and a number of full bottles.
“I’m drinking,” replied the drinker, gloomily.
“Why are you drinking?” the little prince asked him.
“To forget,” replied the drinker.
“To forget what?” asked the little prince, who already felt sorry for him.
“To forget that I’m ashamed,” confessed the drinker, lowering his head.
“Ashamed of what?” inquired the little prince, who wanted to help him.
“Ashamed of drinking!” concluded the drinker, who then shut himself away in the silence.
And the little prince went away, puzzled.
“The grownups are certainly very, very odd,” he said to himself, as he continued on his journey.
