The sixth planet was ten times larger than the last. It was inhabited by an old gentleman who wrote enormous books.
“Oh, look! Here comes an explorer!” he cried out when he caught sight of the little prince.
The little prince sat down on the table and panted a little. He had already travelled so far!
“Where do you come from?” the old gentleman said to him.
“What’s that big book?” said the little prince. “What do you do here?”
“I am a geographer,” said the old gentleman.
“What’s a geographer?”
“He is a scholar who knows the location of the seas, the rivers, the towns, the mountains, and the deserts.”
“That’s very interesting,” said the little prince. “That really is, at last, a real profession!”
And he glanced around at the planet of the geographer. He had never seen such a majestic planet before.
“Your planet is very beautiful,” he said.
“Are there oceans?”
“I wouldn’t know,” said the geographer.
“Oh.” (The little prince was disappointed.) “And mountains?”
“I wouldn’t know,” said the geographer.
“And towns, and rivers, and deserts?”
“I wouldn’t know that, either,” said the geographer.
“But you’re a geographer!”
“That’s true,” the geographer said, “but I am not an explorer. I don’t have a single explorer. It is not for the geographer to count the towns, the rivers, the mountains, the seas, the oceans, and the deserts. The geographer is too important to go strolling about. He doesn’t leave his desk. But he receives the explorers. He asks them questions, and he writes down their recollections. And if any of their recollections seem interesting to him, the geographer orders an inquiry into that explorer's moral character.”
“Why’s that?”
“Because an explorer who told lies would cause havoc to geography books. So would an explorer who drank too much.”
“Why’s that?” asked the little prince.
“Because intoxicated men see double. So the geographer would record two mountains in a place where there was only one.”
“I know someone,” said the little prince, “who’d make a bad explorer.”
“That’s possible. So, when the moral character of the explorer appears to be in order, an inquiry is done into his discovery.”
“You go to see it?”
“No. That would be too complicated. But one requires the explorer to provide proof. If for example, the discovery in question was of a large mountain, one would require that he bring back large stones from it.”
The geographer suddenly became excited.
“But you—you come from far away! You are an explorer! You must describe your planet to me!”
And the geographer, having opened his big register, sharpened his pencil. The recitals of explorers are first recorded in pencil. One waits until the explorer has provided proof before recording them in ink.
“Well?” said the geographer.
“Oh, where I live,” said the little prince, “it’s not very interesting, everything is very small. I have three volcanoes. Two active volcanoes, and one extinct one. But you never know.”
“One never knows,” said the geographer.
“I also have a flower.”
“We do not record flowers,” said the geographer.
“Why’s that? It’s the prettiest thing!” “Because flowers are ephemeral.”
“What does that mean — 'ephemeral'?”
“Geography books,” said the geographer, “of all books, are the most concerned with matters of consequence. They never become out-dated. It is very rare that a mountain changes position. It is very rare that an ocean empties itself of its water. We write about eternal things.”
“But extinct volcanoes can wake up,” interrupted the little prince. “What does 'ephemeral' mean?”
“Whether volcanoes are extinct or active is of no consequence to us,” said the geographer. “The thing that matters to us is the mountain. It does not change.”
“But what does 'ephemeral' mean?” repeated the little prince, who had never in his life let go of a question, once he had asked it.
“It means, ‘which is at risk of imminent disappearance.’"
“Is my flower at risk of imminent disappearance?”
“Of course.”
“My flower is ephemeral,” the little prince said to himself, “and she has only four thorns to defend herself against the world. And I’ve left her all alone on my planet!”
That was his first moment of regret.
But he took heart once again:
“What place would you advise me to visit?” he asked.
“The planet Earth,” replied the geographer. “It has a good reputation...”
And the little prince went away, thinking of his flower.

So the seventh planet was the Earth.
The Earth isn’t just any old planet! It has 111 kings (not forgetting, of course, the Negro kings amongst them), 7000 geographers, 900000 businessmen, 7500000 heavy drinkers, 311000000 conceited men, that’s to say, about 2000000000 grownups.
To give you an idea of the size of the Earth, I’ll tell you that before the invention of electricity it was necessary to maintain, over the span of the six continents, a veritable army of 462511 street lamp lighters.
Seen from a distance it made a wonderful spectacle. The movements of this army were regulated like those of an opera ballet. First came the turn of the lamplighters of New Zealand and Australia. Having set their lamps alight, they would go off to bed. Next came the turn of the lamplighters of China and Siberia to enter into the dance. Then they too would disappear into the wings. Then came the turn of the lamplighters of Russia and the Indies. Then those of Africa and Europe. Then those of South America. Then those of North America. And never would they make a mistake in their order of entry on stage. It was magnificent.
Only the lamp lighter of the single lamp of the North pole, and his colleague at the single lamp of the South pole led lives of leisure: they worked twice a year.

When one wants to be witty, it can happen that one bends the truth a little. I haven’t been entirely honest in telling you about the lamplighters. I run the risk of giving a false idea of our planet to those who don’t know it. Men take up very little space on the Earth. If the two billion people who inhabit the Earth were to stand upright and squash together a little, like for a meeting, they would easily fit on one public square twenty miles long and twenty miles wide. All humanity could be piled up on the smallest Pacific islet.
The grownups, of course, won’t believe you. They picture themselves as taking up a lot of space. They think themselves as important as the baobabs. Therefore you should advise them to do the math. They adore numbers, and that will please them. But don’t waste your time on this chore. There’s no point. You trust me.
The little prince, having arrived on Earth, was very surprised not to see anyone. He had already started to worry that he’d got the wrong planet, when a moon-coloured coil stirred in the sand.
“Good evening,” said the little prince courteously.
“Good evening,” said the snake.
“On what planet have I come down on?” asked the little prince.
“Onto Earth, in Africa,” the snake answered.
“Oh!... So there’s no one on Earth?”
“This is the desert. There is no one in the deserts. The Earth is large,” said the snake.
The little prince sat down on a stone, and raised his eyes toward the sky.
“I wonder,” he said, “if the stars are lit so that each of us can one day find his own again. Look at my planet. It’s right there above us... But it’s so far away!”
“It is beautiful,” said the snake.
“What has brought you here?”
“I’ve been having some trouble with a flower,” said the little prince.
“Ah!” said the snake.
And they were silent.
“Where are the men?” asked the little prince at last. “It’s a bit lonely in the desert...”
“It is also lonely amongst men,” the snake said.
The little prince gazed at him for a long time.
“You're a funny animal,” he said finally, “as thin as a finger...”
“But I am more powerful than the finger of a king,” said the snake.
The little prince smiled.
“You’re not very powerful... you haven’t even got any legs... you can’t even travel...”
“I can carry you further than a ship,” said the snake.
He wrapped himself around the little prince's ankle, like a golden bracelet.
“Whoever I touch, I send him back to the earth from which he came,” he continued.
“But you are pure, and you come from a star...”
The little prince made no reply.
“I feel sorry for you, so weak, on this Earth made of granite. I can help you if someday you become too homesick for your planet. I can.”
“Oh! I understand very well,” said the little prince, “but why do you always speak in riddles?”
“I solve them all,” said the snake.
And they were silent.

The little prince crossed the desert and met only with one flower. A flower with three petals, a nondescript flower belonging to no one.
“Good morning,” said the little prince.
“Good morning,” said the flower.
“Where are the men?” asked the little prince politely.
The flower had once seen a caravan passing.
“Men? I think there exists six or seven of them. I saw them years ago. But you never know where to find them. They are blown here and there by the wind. They lack roots, it makes things very difficult for them”
“Goodbye,” said the little prince. “Goodbye,” said the flower.

The little prince climbed a high mountain. The only mountains he’d ever known were the three volcanoes that came up to his knees. And he used the extinct volcano as a footstool. “From a mountain as high as this one,” he said to himself, “I’ll be able to see the entire planet all at once, and all the people...” But he saw nothing but sharp needles of rock.
“Good morning,” he said courteously.
“Good morning... Good morning... Good morning...,” answered the echo.
“Who are you?” said the little prince.
“Who are you... who are you... who are you...?” answered the echo.
“Be my friends. I’m all alone,” he said.
“I’m all alone... all alone... all alone...,” answered the echo.
“What a funny planet!” he thought. “It’s all dry, and all jagged, and all barren. And the people have no imagination. They repeat whatever you say to them... On my planet I had a flower: she was always the first to speak...”
