The fourth planet belonged to a businessman. This man was so busy that he didn’t even raise his head when the little prince arrived.
“Good morning,” the little prince said to him. “Your cigarette has gone out.”
“Three and two make five. Five and seven make twelve. Twelve and three make fifteen. Good morning. Fifteen and seven make twenty-two. Twenty-two and six make twenty-eight. No time to light it again. Twenty-six and five make thirty-one. Phew! Then that makes five-hundred-and-one million, six-hundred-twenty-two-thousand, seven-hundred-thirty-one.”
“Five hundred million what?”
“Huh? Are you still there? Five-hundred-and-one million... I’ve forgotten now... I have so much work! I am a man of consequence. I don’t amuse myself with balderdash! Two and five make seven.
“Five-hundred-and-one million what?” repeated the little prince, who had never in his life let go of a question, once he had asked it.
The businessman raised his head.
“During the fifty-four years that I’ve lived on this planet, I’ve only been disturbed three times. The first time was twenty-two years ago, by some scatterbrain who fell from god knows where. He made the most dreadful noise, and I made four mistakes in a sum. The second time was eleven years ago, by an attack of rheumatism. I don't get enough exercise. I don’t have time to stroll about. I am a man of consequence. The third time—well, this is it! I was saying, then, five-hundred-and-one million—”
“Millions of what?”
The businessman realised that there was no hope of being left in peace:
“Millions of those little objects that you see sometimes in the sky.”
“Flies?”
“No, no, the little things that shine.”
“Bees?”
“No, no! The little golden things that make lazy men daydream. As for me, I am a man of consequence. I have no time to daydream.”
‘Ah! The stars?”
“Yes, that's it. The stars.”
“And what do you do with five-hundred million stars?”
“Five-hundred-and-one million, six-hundred-twenty-two thousand, seven-hundred-thirty-one. I am a man of consequence: I am precise.”
“And what do you do with these stars?”
“What do I do with them?”
“Yes.”
“Nothing. I own them.”
“You own the stars?”
“Yes.”
“But I’ve already seen a king who—”
“Kings don’t own, they ‘reign’ over. It's very different.”
“And how does owning the stars help you?”
“It helps by making me rich.”
“And how does being rich help you?”
“To buy more stars, if someone discovers some more.”
“This man,” the little prince said to himself, “reasons a bit like my poor drinker...”
But he still had some questions:
“How can you own the stars? “
“Who owns them?” the businessman retorted, grumpily.
“I don't know. Nobody does.”
“Then they belong to me, because I thought of it first.”
“Is that all that’s necessary?”
“Certainly. When you find a diamond that belongs to nobody, it’s yours. When you discover an island that belongs to nobody, it’s yours. When you get an idea first, you take out a patent: it’s yours. And I own the stars, because no one before me ever thought of owning them.
“Yes, that’s true,” said the little prince.
“And what do you do with them?”
“I administer them. I count them and recount them,” said the businessman. “It’s difficult. But I am a man of consequence.”
The little prince was still not satisfied.
“If I owned a scarf, I could put it around my neck and take it away with me. If I owned a flower, I could pick my flower and take it away with me. But you can’t pick the stars.”
“No. But I can put them in the bank.”
“What does that mean?”
“That means that I write the number of my stars on a little paper. And then I lock this paper in a drawer.”
“And that’s all?”
“That’s enough.”
“That’s funny,” thought the little prince.
“It’s rather poetic. But it’s of no great consequence.”
On matters of consequence, the little prince had ideas which were very different from those of the grownups.
“I myself,” he continued, “own a flower that I water every day. I own three volcanoes, that I sweep out every week, as I also sweep out the one that’s extinct. You never know. It’s of some use to my volcanoes, and it’s of some use to my flower, that I own them. But you’re of no use to the stars...”
The businessman opened his mouth, but he found nothing to say in response, and the little prince went away.
“The grownups are certainly altogether extraordinary,” he said to himself, as he continued on the journey.

The fifth planet was very strange. It was the smallest of them all. There was just enough room on it to accommodate a street lamp and a lamplighter. The little prince couldn’t work out the purpose of having a street lamp and a lamplighter, somewhere out in the skies, on a planet without any houses or people. He said to himself nevertheless:
“It may well be that this man is absurd. But, he’s less absurd than the king, than the conceited man, the businessman, or the drinker. At least his work has some meaning. When he lights his lamp, it’s as if he’s bringing to life one more star, or one more flower. When he puts out his lamp, he sends the flower, or the star, to sleep. That’s a beautiful occupation. It serves a real purpose, because it’s pretty.”
When he arrived on the planet he respectfully saluted the lamplighter.
“Good morning. Why have you just put out your lamp?”
“Those are the orders,” replied the lamplighter. “Good morning.”
“What are the orders?”
“That I put out my lamp. Good evening.”
And he lit it again.
“But why have you just lit it again?”
“Those are the orders,” replied the lamplighter.
“I don’t understand,” said the little prince.
“There’s nothing to understand,” said the lamplighter. “Orders are orders. Good morning.”
And he put out his lamp.
Then he sponged his forehead with a handkerchief, decorated with red squares.
“I have a terrible profession. In the old days it was reasonable. I’d put the lamp out in the morning, and in the evening I’d light it. I had the rest of the day to rest, and the rest of the night to sleep...”
“And since then, have the orders changed?”
“The orders haven’t changed,” said the lamplighter. “That’s the tragedy! Every year the planet has turned faster and faster, and the orders haven’t changed!”
“So what then?” said the little prince.
“So now that it spins round once every minute, I no longer have a moment’s rest. Once every minute I light the lamp and put it out again!”
“That’s funny! Where you live, a day only lasts a minute!”
“It’s not funny at all!” said the lamplighter. “We’ve already been speaking for a month.”
“A month?”
“Yes. Thirty minutes. Thirty days. Good evening.”
And he lit his lamp again.
The little prince watched him and felt that he loved this lamplighter who was so faithful to his orders. He remembered the sunsets which he himself had gone to seek in the past, by moving his chair. He wanted to help his friend.
“You know — I know a way you can rest whenever you want...”
“I always want to,” said the lamplighter.
For it’s possible to be both faithful and lazy at the same time.
The little prince went on:
“Your planet is so small that you can go right round it in three strides. You only have to walk along rather slowly to always stay in the sun. When you want to rest, you can walk— and the day will last as long as you like.”
“That doesn't do me much good,” said the lamplighter. “What I really love in life is to sleep.”
“That’s bad luck,” said the little prince.
“That is bad luck,” said the lamplighter. “Good morning.”
And he put out his lamp.
“That man,” said the little prince to himself, as he continued further on his journey, “that man would be despised by all the others: by the king, by the conceited man, by the drinker, and by the businessman. Yet he’s the only one that doesn’t seem ridiculous to me. Perhaps it’s because he thinks of something other than himself.”
He breathed a sigh of regret, and said to himself:
“That man is the only one with whom I could’ve made friends. But his planet is really very small. There’s no room on it for two people.
What the little prince didn’t dare admit to himself was that he missed this blessed planet most of all because of the 1440 sunsets every day!
