On the fifth day, again thanks to the sheep, this secret of the little prince's life was revealed to me. He asked abruptly, without anything leading up to it, as if it was the result of a long silent meditation on a problem:
“If a sheep eats shrubs, then does it eat flowers too:
“A sheep eats everything it finds.”
“Even flowers that have thorns?”
“Yes, even flowers that have thorns.”
“What are the thorns for then?”
I didn't know the answer. I was very busy trying to unscrew a bolt in my engine that had got stuck. I was very worried because my breakdown was beginning to appear to be very serious, and I had so little drinking water left that I had to fear the worst.
“What are the thorns for then?”
The little prince never let go of a question, once he had asked it. I was upset over the bolt and I said the first thing that came into my head:
“The thorns are of no use at all. Flowers have thorns just for spite!”
“Oh!”
But after a moment of silence, he exclaimed with a sort of resentment:
“I don’t believe you! Flowers are weak creatures. They’re naive. They reassure themselves as best they can. They think themselves frightful with their thorns...”
I made no reply. At that moment I was thinking to myself: “If this bolt won’t budge, I'll knock it out with a hammer.” The little prince interrupted my thoughts again:
“And you actually believe that flowers—”
“No! No! I don’t believe it at all! I answered the first thing that came to my mind. I, myself, am busy with matters of consequence!”
He looked at me dumbfounded.
“Matters of consequence!”
He watched me, hammer in hand and my fingers black with grease, leaning on an object that would have seemed to him very ugly.
“You talk just like the grownups!”
That made me feel a little ashamed. But he went on relentlessly:
“You confuse everything... you mix everything up!”
He was really very angry. He shook his golden curls in the breeze:
“I know a planet where there is a red faced gentleman. He has never smelled a flower. He has never looked at a star. He has never loved anyone. He has never done anything but sums. And all day long he repeats just like you: ‘I am busy with matters of consequence!’ And that makes him swell up with pride. But this is not a man, he’s a mushroom!”
“A what?”
“A mushroom!”
The little prince was now white with rage.
“Flowers have been growing thorns for millions of years. For millions of years, the sheep have eaten the flowers all the same. And it's not a matter of consequence to try to understand why they take so much trouble to grow thorns which are never of any use? Is the war between the flowers and sheep not important? Is it not of more consequence and more important than the sums of a fat red faced gentleman? And if I myself know of a unique flower, which grows nowhere but on my planet, that a little sheep can destroy in one stroke, just like that, one morning, without realising what he's done, is that not important!”
He blushed, and continued:
“If someone loves a flower of which just one specimen exists amongst the millions and millions of stars, it’s enough to make him happy when he looks at them. He can say: ‘My flower is out there somewhere...’ But if the sheep eats the flower, for him it’s as if suddenly all the stars have gone out! And you think that’s not important!
He couldn’t say anything more. He suddenly burst into tears. Night had fallen. I had put down my tools. Of what moment was my hammer, my bolt, or thirst, or death? There was on a star, on a planet, my planet, Earth, a little prince to be comforted! I took him in my arms. I rocked him. I said: “The flower that you love isn’t in danger... I’ll draw you a muzzle for your sheep... I'll draw you a railing for your flower... I...” I wasn't sure what to say. I felt very awkward. I didn’t know how to reach him, where to find him... It's so secretive, the land of tears.

I learned very quickly to know this flower better. There had always been very simple flowers on the planet of the little prince, decorated with a single row of petals, that didn't take up any space, and didn’t bother anyone. They would appear one morning in the grass, and by evening they’d have faded away. But this one had sprouted one day, from a seed blown in from no one knows where, and the little prince had watched very closely this sprout that was not like the other sprouts. It could have been a new kind of baobab. But the shrub soon stopped growing and began to produce a flower. The little prince, who witnessed the appearance of a huge bud, felt that a miraculous apparition must emerge from it, but the flower never stopped preparing for her future beauty, safe in her green chamber. She chose her colours carefully. She dressed slowly; she arranged her petals one by one. She did not want to come out all rumpled, like the poppies. She would only want to appear in the full radiance of her beauty. Oh yes! She was a very flirtatious creature! And her mysterious adornment had thus lasted for days and days. Then one morning, exactly at sunrise, she suddenly showed herself.
And, after having worked with such care and attention to detail, she said with a yawn:
“Oh! I have only just woken up... I do apologize... I am not yet presentable”
The little prince couldn’t restrain his admiration:
“You’re so beautiful!”
“Am I not?” the flower responded, sweetly.
“And I was born at the same moment as the sun... ”
The little prince guessed easily enough that she was not very modest, but how moving she was!
“It's time, I think, for breakfast,” she added an instant later, “If you would have the kindness to think of my needs.
And the little prince, completely abashed, having gone to look for a sprinkling can of fresh water, tended to the flower.
And like that, she had soon begun to torment him with her vanity. One day, for example, speaking of her four thorns, she told the little prince:
“Let them come, the tigers, with their claws!”
“There aren’t any tigers on my planet,” the little prince objected, “and tigers don’t eat weeds.”
“I am not a weed,” the flower replied sweetly.
“Please forgive me...
“I do not fear tigers, but I detest drafts. You wouldn't happen to have a screen?”
“Detests drafts... that’s bad luck for a plant,” remarked the little prince.
“What a very complicated flower.
“In the evening you will put me under a glass dome. It is very cold where you live. Where I come from...”	
But she interrupted herself. She had come in the form of a seed. She couldn’t have known anything of other worlds. Humiliated at having been caught out on a lie so naive, she coughed two or three times to imply the little prince was in the wrong.
“The screen...?”
“I was just going to look for it when you spoke to me!”
Then she forced a cough to inflict still more remorse.
So the little prince, despite the good will of his love, had soon come to doubt her. He had taken seriously words of no importance, and had become very unhappy.
“I shouldn’t have listened to her,” he told me one day, “you should never listen to the flowers. We must look at them and breathe their fragrance. Mine perfumed my whole planet, but I didn’t know how to take pleasure in it. This business of the claws, which annoyed me so much, should only have filled my heart with tenderness and pity”
He continued his confidences:
“I didn't know how to understand! I should have her judged by her deeds and not by her words. She overwhelmed me with her fragrance and light. I should never have run away! I should have seen the tenderness behind her contrivances. Flowers are so contradictory! But I was too young to know how to love her.”

I think that for his escape he took advantage of a migration of a flock of wild birds. On the morning of his departure he put his planet in perfect order. He carefully swept out his active volcanoes. He owned two active volcanoes; it was very convenient for heating his breakfast in the morning. He also owned an extinct volcano. But, as he used to say, “You never know!” So he cleaned out the extinct volcano, too. If they are well cleaned out, volcanoes burn slowly and steadily, without any eruptions. Volcanic eruptions are like fires in a chimney. On our earth we're obviously much too small to clean out our volcanoes. That’s why they cause us no end of trouble.
The little prince also pulled up, with a hint of sadness, the last little shoots of the baobabs. He believed he would never return. But all these familiar tasks seemed, on that morning, very precious. And as he watered the flower one last time, and prepared to shelter her under her dome, he found himself close to tears.
“Goodbye,” he said to the flower.
But she didn’t answer.
“Goodbye,” he said again.
The flower coughed. But it was not because she had a cold.
“I was silly,” she said finally. “I ask your forgiveness. Try to be happy.”
He was surprised by this absence of reproaches. He stood there all bewildered, the dome held in mid-air. He didn’t understand this quiet sweetness.
“Of course I love you,” the flower said to him. “It’s my fault that you didn’t know. That is of no importance. But you have been just as foolish as I have. Try to be happy... Let the dome be. I do not want it anymore.”
“But the wind—”
“My cold is not all that bad... The cool night air will do me good. I am a flower.”
“But the animals—”
“I will have to endure two or three caterpillars if I wish to become acquainted with the butterflies. It seems that they are very beautiful. And otherwise who else will come to visit me? You will be far away. As for the large animals, I am not at all afraid of anything. I have my claws.”
And, naively, she showed her four thorns. Then she added:
“Don't linger like this, it’s tiresome. You have decided to leave. Now go!”
For she did not want him to see her crying. She was such a proud flower...
