“Good morning,” said the little prince.
“Good morning,” said the merchant.
This was a merchant who sold pills that had been created to quench thirst. You could take one pill a week, and you no longer felt the need to drink anything.
“Why are you selling those?” asked the little prince.
“It’s a big time saver,” said the merchant. “Experts have done calculations. You save fifty-three minutes per week.”
“And what do I do with the fifty-three minutes?”
“You can do anything you like with them...”
“Myself,” the little prince said to himself, “if I had fifty-three minutes to spend as I liked, I’d walk very slowly toward a spring of fresh water.”

We were at the eighth day since my accident in the desert, and I’d listened to the story of the merchant as I drank the last drop of my water supply.
“Ah,” I said to the little prince, “these memories of yours are very charming; but I haven’t managed to repair my plane yet, I have nothing left to drink, and I, too, would be happy if I could walk slowly towards a spring of fresh water!”
“My friend the fox—” he said to me.
“My dear fellow, our situation has nothing to do with the fox anymore!”
“Why not?”
“Because we will die of thirst.
He didn’t follow my reasoning, and he answered me:
“It’s nice to have had a friend, even if you’re about to die. Myself, I’m glad to have had a fox as a friend...”
“He never considers the danger,” I said to myself. “He’s never been hungry or thirsty. A little sunshine is all he needs...”
But he looked at me and replied to my thought:
“I’m also thirsty. Let’s look for a well.
I made a gesture of weariness: it’s absurd to look for a well, at random, in the immensity of the desert. But we started walking anyway.
When we had walked for hours in silence, night fell, and the stars began to come out. I saw them as if in a dream, as my thirst had made me feverish. The little prince's words danced in my memory:
“So you’re also thirsty?” I asked him.
But he didn’t reply to my question.
He said simply:
“Water can be good for the heart too...”
I didn’t understand his answer, but I said nothing. I knew better than to press my questions.
He was tired. He sat down. I sat down beside him. And, after a silence, he spoke again:
“The stars are beautiful because of a flower that can’t be seen.”
I replied, “That’s true.” And I looked, without saying anything, at the folds of sand in the moonlight.
“The desert is beautiful,” the little prince added.
And it was true. I have always loved the desert. You sit down on a sand dune. You see nothing. You hear nothing. And yet something radiates forth in the silence...
“What makes the desert beautiful,” said the little prince, “is that somewhere it hides a well...”
I was surprised to suddenly understand this mysterious radiation of the sands. When I was a little boy I lived in an old house, and legend told that a treasure was buried there. Of course, no one had ever been able to find it, or perhaps no one had even looked for it. But it cast an enchantment over that house. My home was hiding a secret in the depths of its heart...
“Yes,” I said to the little prince. “Whether the house, the stars, or the desert, what gives them their beauty is something invisible!”
“I’m glad,” he said, “that you agree with my fox.”
As the little prince fell asleep, I took him in my arms and set out walking again. I felt deeply moved. It seemed to me that I was carrying a very fragile treasure. It even seemed to me that there was nothing more fragile on Earth. I looked in the moonlight at his pale forehead, his closed eyes, his locks of hair that trembled in the wind, and I said to myself: “What I see here is only a shell. That which is most important is invisible...”
As his slightly parted lips gave way to a half-smile, I continued: “What I find so deeply moving about this little sleeping prince is his devotion to a flower; it’s the image of a rose that shines in him like the flame of a lamp, even when he’s sleeping. And I came to think of him as even more fragile. One has to look after lamps: a gust of wind can put them out...
And, continuing to walk, I found the well at daybreak.

“Men,” said the little prince, “stuff themselves into express trains, but they don’t know what they’re looking for. So they rush about, and go round in circles...”
And he added:
“It’s not worth it...”
The well that we had reached wasn’t like the other wells of the Sahara. The wells of the Sahara are mere holes dug in the sand. This one looked like a village well. But there was no village there, and I thought I was dreaming.
“It’s strange,” I said to the little prince, “Everything’s been prepared: the pulley, the bucket, and the rope...”
He laughed, took the rope, and put the pulley to work.
And the pulley moaned like an old weathervane when there has long been no wind.
“Can you hear that?” said the little prince, “We’ve woken up the well, and it’s singing...”
I didn’t want him to tire himself out.
“Let me do it,” I said, “It’s too heavy for you.”
I hoisted the bucket slowly to the edge of the well and set it down good and level. The song of the pulley continued in my ears, and in the still trembling water I could see the sunlight shimmer.
“I’m thirsty for this water,” said the little prince. “Give me some to drink...”
And I knew then what he’d been looking for!
I raised the bucket to his lips. He drank, his eyes closed. It was as sweet as some special festival treat. This water was something very different from ordinary nourishment. It was born of the walk under the stars, of the song of the pulley, of the effort of my arms. It was good for the heart, like a present. When I was a little boy, the lights of the Christmas tree, the music of the Midnight Mass, the tenderness in the smiles produced, in a similar way, the radiance of the gift that I received.
“The men where you live,” said the little prince, “grow five thousand roses in a single garden... and they don’t find what they’re looking for in it.”
“They don’t find it,” I replied.
“And yet what they’re looking for could be found in a single rose, or in a little water ...”
“That’s true,” I said.
And the little prince added:
“But the eyes are blind. You have to search with the heart...”
I had drunk the water. I breathed easily. The sand at sunrise is the color of honey. This honey color was also making me feel good. Why then did I have this sense of grief...
“You have to keep your promise,” said the little prince softly, who had again sat down beside me.
“What promise?
“You know... a muzzle for my sheep...
I’m responsible for this flower...”
I took my sketches out of my pocket. The little prince saw them, and laughed as he said:
“Your baobabs-they look a bit like cabbages.”
“Oh!”
And I’d been so proud of my baobabs!
“Your fox... his ears... they look a bit like horns... and they’re too long!”
And then he laughed again.
“You aren’t being fair, my little fellow. I don't know how to draw anything except boa constrictors, closed and open.”
“Oh, it’ll be all ok,” he said, “children understand.”
So I made a pencil sketch of a muzzle. And I felt a pang in my heart as I gave it to him.
“You have plans that I don’t know about...”
But he didn’t respond. He said to me:
“You know, my descent to earth... tomorrow will be its anniversary.”
Then after a silence he went on:
“I came down very near here.”
And he blushed.
And once again, without understanding why, I felt a peculiar sense of sorrow. One question occurred to me however:
“So it wasn’t by chance that the morning I first met you, a week ago, you were out walking like that, all alone, a thousand miles from any inhabited region? You were going back to the place where you landed?”
The little prince blushed again.
And I added, hesitantly:
“Perhaps because of the anniversary...?”
The little prince blushed once more. He never answered questions, but when you blush, that means ‘yes,’ doesn’t it?
“Oh,” I said to him, “I’m worried—”
But he responded:
“Now you must work. You must go back to your engine. I will wait for you here. Come back tomorrow evening.
But I wasn’t reassured. I remembered the fox. You run the risk of weeping a little, if you allow yourself to be tamed...
