I thus learned a second very important thing: that his home planet was barely bigger than a house!
It didn't surprise me much. I knew that, apart from the large planets like the Earth, Jupiter, Mars, and Venus, which have been given names, there are hundreds of others that are sometimes so small that one has great difficulty in spotting them through the telescope. When an astronomer discovers one of these, he gives it a number for a name. He might call it for example “asteroid 325.”
I have serious reason to believe that the planet from where the little prince came is the asteroid B-612. This asteroid has only been seen through a telescope once, in 1909, by a Turkish astronomer.
He had then given a big presentation on his discovery at an international astronomy conference.
But nobody had believed him because of his outfit. Grownups are like that.
Fortunately for the reputation of Asteroid B-612, a Turkish dictator imposed on his people, on pain of death, to dress themselves in the European fashion. The astronomer gave his presentation again in 1920, dressed very stylishly. And this time everybody believed him.
If I have told you these details about the asteroid B-612, and revealed to you its number, it’s because of the grownups. Grownups love numbers. When you talk to them about a new friend, they never ask you about any of the important things. They never ask you: “How does his voice sound? What games does he like best? Does he collect butterflies?” They ask: “How old is he? How many brothers does he have? How much does he weigh? How much money does his father make?” Only then do they think they know him. If you said to the grownups: “I saw a beautiful red brick house with geraniums by the windows and doves on the roof...,” they wouldn’t be able to picture this house in their minds. You’d have to tell them: “I saw a hundred thousand franc house.” And they’d cry: “How pretty!”
So if you were to say to them: “The proof that the little prince existed is that he was charming, he laughed, and he wanted a sheep. If someone wants a sheep, that proves they exist,” they’d shrug their shoulders and treat you like a child. But if you were to say: “The planet he came from is the Asteroid B-612”, they’d be convinced, and leave you in peace and spare you their questions. They’re like that. Don’t blame them. Children should be forgiving towards the grownups.
But, of course, those of us who understand life, we don't much care for numbers! I’d have liked to begin this story in the same way as a fairy tale. I’d have liked to say: 
“Once upon a time, there was a little prince who lived on a planet not much bigger than himself, and who needed a friend...” For those who understand life, it would have seemed much more natural.
For I don’t want my book to be read lightly. I feel so much sadness in recounting these memories. It's already been six years since my friend left with his sheep. If I try to describe him here, it’s so as not to forget him. It’s sad to forget a friend. Not everyone has had a friend. And if I forgot him, I could become like the grownups who are only interested in numbers. So that’s why I have again bought a box of paints and some pencils. It's hard to take up drawing again at my age, when I have only ever attempted to draw a boa constrictor, closed and open, at the age of six! I'll try, of course, to make my portraits as lifelike as possible. But I’m not quite sure I'll succeed. Some drawings go alright; others don’t look like their subjects. I also get the size a bit wrong. Here the little prince is too big. There he’s too small. I’m also not sure about the colour of his outfit. So I fumble along somehow, as best I can. I will make mistakes on certain important points too. But you’ll have to forgive me that. My friend never gave explanations. Perhaps he thought I was just like himself. But I, unfortunately, don't know how to see sheep through boxes. Perhaps I’m a bit like the grownups. I must have got older.

Every day I’d learn something about his planet, the departure, and the trip. The information came slowly, as his thoughts wandered. It was in this way that, on the third day, I came to know of the tragedy of the baobabs.
This time again it was thanks to the sheep, because the little prince asked me abruptly, as if seized by a grave doubt:
“It’s true, isn’t it, that sheep eat shrubs?”
“Yes. It's true.”
“Oh! I am glad!”
I didn’t understand why it was so important that sheep eat shrubs.
But the little prince added:
“Then it follows they also eat baobabs?”
I pointed out to the little prince that baobabs were not shrubs, but trees as big as churches, and that even if he took with him a whole herd of elephants, the herd wouldn't manage to eat up one single baobab.
The idea of the herd of elephants made the little prince laugh:
“They’d have to be piled up on top of each other...”
But he remarked wisely:
“The baobab trees, before they grow up, start off small.”
“That's right! But why do you want the sheep to eat the little baobabs?”
He replied: “Oh, come on!” as if it were obvious. And it took me a great mental effort to understand this problem on my own, without any help.
And indeed, on the planet of the little prince there were, like on all planets, both good plants and bad plants. And therefore, both good seeds from good plants and bad seeds from bad plants. But seeds are invisible. They sleep secretly deep in the earth until, on a whim, one of them decides to wake up. Then it elongates and grows, timidly at first, toward the sun: a charming little harmless sprig. If it’s a sprig of radish or rose bush, you can let it grow as it likes. But if it’s a bad plant, one must pull the plant out straight away, as soon as it can be recognised. Now there were some terrible seeds on the planet of the little prince... there were the seeds of baobab trees. The soil of the planet was infested with them. A baobab, if you get to it too late, can never be got rid of. It takes over the entire planet. It pierces it with its roots. And if the planet is too small, and if there are too many baobabs, they shatter it to pieces.
“It's a matter of discipline,” the little prince told me later. “After grooming oneself in the morning, the planet must be carefully groomed. You must see to it that you regularly pull out the baobabs as soon as they can be told apart from the rose bushes, to which they look very similar when they’re very young. It's a very boring job, but very easy.”
And one day he suggested that I apply myself to making a beautiful drawing, so that the children from where I come from would understand all this. “If one day they travel,” he said to me, “it could come in useful. Sometimes there’s no harm in postponing one's work. But in the case of baobabs, that always leads to a catastrophe. I used to know a planet inhabited by a lazy man. He had neglected three little bushes...”
And based on what the little prince told me, I drew this planet. I don’t like to sound like a moralist. But the danger of the baobabs is so little understood, and the risks run by anyone who might get lost on an asteroid are so large that, for once, I am breaking my normal reserve. I say: “Children! Beware of baobabs!” It’s to warn my friends of the danger they've long been skirting, like myself, without knowing it, that I have worked so hard on this drawing. The lesson which I pass on by this means was worth the effort. You might be wondering: Why is it that in this book there aren't any other drawings as impressive as the drawing of the baobabs? The answer is simple: I tried but I couldn’t succeed. When I drew the baobabs I was spurred on by a sense of urgency.

Oh! Little prince, I came to understand, gradually, in this way, your sad life. For a long time your only entertainment was the softness of the sunsets. I learned this new detail on the fourth day, in the morning, when you said to me:
“I’m very fond of sunsets. Let’s go and see a sunset now...”
“But we have to wait...”
“Wait for what?”
“Wait until the sun goes down.”
You seemed surprised at first, and then you chuckled at yourself. And you said:
“I think myself at home still!”
Indeed. When it’s noon in the United States, the sun, everybody knows, is setting over France. It would suffice to be able to go to France in one minute to be able to see a sunset. Unfortunately, France is much too far away. But on your tiny planet, all you needed was to move your chair a few steps. And you watched the twilight falling whenever you liked...
One day I saw the sunset forty-four times!
And a little later you added:
“You know... you love the sunset, when you’re really sad...”
“The day you saw it forty-four times, were you were really that sad then?”
But the little prince made no reply.
